- [Instructor] To receive the full benefits
of a microservice architecture,
it takes a flexible execution environment
that allows for rapid yet stable deployments.
This is why the majority of developers choose
to deploy microservices inside of containers.
And in most cases, that means Docker.
Like each new technology in the stack,
containers have their own attack surface
and expose new attack vectors.
When running microservices on containers,
security measures can be applied to harden
various components within the architecture,
including the host and the container runtime.
The host where the container engine is installed
is a starting point for securing the container platform.
It should have a very limited number of users
that can access it directly.
If you're using a container orchestrator like Kubernetes,
this number should be even smaller,
because the need to access the host is diminished.
When choosing an operating system for the host,
it's best to use a thin distro specifically designed
for using containers, like Red Hat's Fedora CoreOS.
These distros reduce the attack surface on the host
by removing non-essential applications.
This lowers the number of vulnerabilities found
within the operating system.
The host should also be hardened in accordance
with the same security strategies taken
to secure other VMs in your environment.
When running containers,
whether it be directly with the container runtime
or preferably with the help of a container orchestrator,
there are several important runtime security configurations
that need to be applied.
Since Docker is the defacto standard for containers,
the remainder of our security discussion
is going to be pretty specific to Docker.
A good best practice is to configure containers
to run with the least amount of privileges necessary.
An effective way to achieve this is to drop
all the kernel capabilities initially,
and then add in only those capabilities
that are necessary to run the container.
This should be accompanied by the no-new-privileges flag,
which prevents the process inside the container
from gaining new privileges during execution.
Another dangerous configuration option to be aware of
is the privileged flag.
This flag should be avoided at all cost.
It grants a large amount of capabilities
to the underlying Docker process running the container,
which can be used to escape the container
and launch attacks on the underlying host.
It's also important to set the user that will be used
when running the image.
This is done either with the image configuration
or when the container is launched.
If a user is not set,
your container will run as root by default,
and root inside the container is root on the host.
If an attacker manages to escape the container,
they will have complete access to the underlying host.
Finally, running containers using a read-only file system
and volumes is a great way to reduce the blast radius
of any containers that are compromised.
These runtime configurations can help secure
your Docker containers in a microservice system.
If you're looking for a tool to help ensure your containers
are securely configured,
you can use Docker Bench
to check for security misconfigurations.
This tool will scan running containers
and report on any configurations
that deviate from benchmark industry security standards.
To secure containerized microservices at runtime,
you must account for the additional layers in the stack
and understand the security implications
of how they are configured.
This responsibility may span across multiple positions
in an organization.
So it's important to standardize
these best practices via automation.
Once your containers are running securely,
your microservices can truly enjoy the benefits
of the flexible deployment and scaling
without serious security risks.